---
layout: post
title: storytelling after the protests
image:
  path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/slhxf9yc4yqh5fc/reading-rollingbooks.png?raw=1
  thumbnail: https://www.dropbox.com/s/slhxf9yc4yqh5fc/reading-rollingbooks.png?raw=1
  caption: "Storytelling."
tags: rollingbooks

---

We have to talk about the protests. I think it’s very difficult. I think we are facing a really big problem and I may not be able to solve this. For example, when we organize activities, in picture books there are many that talks about peace, education on global citizenship, and inside there are a lot about inequality, about migrants, and about justice and war. One of the big impacts [of the protests] is how do we talk about these issues? How do we use picture books to talk about these issues? It’s a very big challenge. If we didn’t have Hong Kong in this situation, we talk about picture books, okay, it’s easy to talk about it. Or, we can know about these issues in other places and that we have this situation, but when we talk about Hong Kong in this context, if we talk about similar picture books, how do we talk about this and how do we explain this? The challenge is not bad, it’s positive, we have to confront this. Even without picture books, we still need to talk to children, no? But the problem is, I have these picture books, how do I assist parents in communicating with their children on these issues? Even among ourselves, it is a big challenge for us parents; my son is now 12 years old. Among us parents, it’s a huge challenge, we say if our children are too indifferent, we would be very sad, like if they don’t care, we would be really sad. But if they are too passionate, like you saw yesterday a 13-year old was out there being a reporter during the protests, we would be really worried as well. In these two extremes, you don’t know how to draw attention to—well, you don’t want them to be too involved.  If your child is very involved, this is also very dangerous. We end up facing a lot of these problems. I think our next challenge is—of course, we haven’t worked on it a lot—if we need to talk about picture books and we are in contact with these issues, this would be in our social movement, we have to think very clearly when we share with the parents, what kind of ways would we propose, or listen to their best practices that they can share, for us to use picture books to talk about this topic. I think this is a very big challenge we see in the future, but it is also a very good opportunity. 
