---

layout: post
title: individuals and hard work
tags: africacenter

---

**Mahad:** Well it is true, in Hong Kong when you come here for the first time and everyone is rushing to somewhere or from somewhere, life is quite fast-paced, it might be quite different from where I come from, it’s definitely more relaxed, unless you are going to work, quite more relaxed, it does speak of the way of life of people, how life generally is. If you are someone who is still young and energetic and is ambitious and wants to get something out of living here in Hong Kong, you have those possibilities of the most of the things you want to achieve depends entirely on you, on how hard you work. You are in a place where can take advantage of your talents and your hard work you know the possibility of your hard work and whatever you input you will get something out of it, and you try to give the best in the possibility, because the correlation between what you will get back with what you put in are proportional, and the more you input to your life, the more likely you are to achieve something. 

The dependency on your family and friends is much less likely in Hong Kong. If you are in Somalia, if something is getting a little tough, you always have a community or family members; here, [in Hong Kong], it’s generally much more individualistic, you go out and get what you want personally, it kind of forces you to keep rushing from somewhere to somewhere. You are always in a hurry somewhere and because of that, you are basically responding to the challenges around you, you give everything you have and that’s something people should be doing, it is true people should enjoy their life, if you spend most of your life relaxing and trying to, not pushing, you tend to get behind and the people here understand that, they push themselves just so that they won’t be left behind. 

**Ali:** Mine is not that different from especially Abdikafi and Innocent, because I believe Hong Kong is really an opportunity; it depends on the person, how he sees his daily life. However, where I come from is more [based in] community than individual. In Hong Kong, the difference is that it is more [focused on the] individual. I enjoy meeting people with different backgrounds and when they don’t have any relationship with my culture and where I come from. So, I see new things. By that I am learning new things. It makes me more curious about life and the view of the world. The first thing that amazed me in Hong Kong, just after just few months I arrived in Hong Kong, I remember I couldn’t speak English and I was in McDonald, I found actually many people speaking different languages: I found someone speaking in German, another in Spanish, another in French, that really surprised me because I never saw this in Chad. People in Chad they speak a lot of different dialect languages, but you know with the globalization, when you watch a lot of TV and connecting in internet, those  globalizing language, like English and Mandarin or the others and you can’t see a lot of people see these kind of languages where I come from. 

In fact, you can be sometimes homesick, you will miss where you come from, but actually when you adapt to the place that is new to you, I don’t think the home country will be really a big issue. Because it’s just like we are moving with the place. So, Hong Kong is very unique place entirely different people from different backgrounds and everyday is something new we are going to learn. Just like, giving an example from today, Chihiro’s workshop, just about the tea. In Chad, tea is something very normal, everyday there is tea. But is not something special with special ceremony. In Japan they make tea unique, beautiful and so important. Actually, is not about the tea itself but, the process, the way people they share the tea, the way they make their process, how the tea is crafted. So that’s already makes the tea something unique. But the tea itself, the tea itself is really what you need. 

That’s why to me, Hong Kong is a very unique place, a land of opportunities but you really need to work hard like the ants. Every day you run to go out and you come back home tired and exhausted, working like a donkey, really you work hard and still you don’t see much results, the results are really slow, but what you put out is more. Hong Kong is an amazing place to me, and the fact that there is every day learning, it’s already something wonderful.



