---
layout: post
title: making reading trendy
image:
  path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/nrrztp4tuib9ql3/library.jpg?raw=1
  caption: "'Library' written in Traditional Chinese characters."
tags: rollingbooks

---

So are we doing story telling or books? If I were to put it simply, we have a mission statement, we want to say I am promoting reading experience, so is it [just about] books? Not necessarily. Is it based on story telling? Not necessarily. [It has to do with] anything that has to do with reading, I really want people to change the impressions they have about reading. For some people, reading is very academic. In school, reading will be about studying. Reading will be about academics. These are the ideas [about reading]. For some, there are many stories, like story telling. Story telling is only a tool, a way. I think to some extent on these topics, I think these agendas are very important, so I think I would really hope to promote the reading experience and when everybody have changed their ideas on the reading experience, if I want to do more reading promotion later, it will be easier. And I think the main thing is, agenda is something we can focus on; through our programs, through our selection of books, through our processes of story-telling, we can tell our agendas. Agendas are the by-products, we can use these opportunities to tell people about these stories. The most important thing for us is to change the reading experience. Because in Hong Kong we say things like, well, there’s a lot of people reading books so why can’t the bookstores sustain themselves? 

The reading experience is not…trendy. People think reading is outdated, or I don’t want to read; if you go to movies, you can go with your friends, if you have kind of fashion or something trendy you will go to, or [the game] Animal Crossing that a lot of people are now playing, such things are trendy. The problem is, why can’t reading do that? Because simply said, reading is not trendy. Of course, I have to invest time: is there some way we can allow everyone to feel reading is a trendy thing? What makes the experience special? Of course, I can tell you I like to read books, but the more important thing is how do you make people who do not like to read, so I am doing reading promotion, so it’s not that I am trying to introduce a book to you, that, a lot of people are doing, like introducing good books, but instead I want to continuously think in the concept of rolling books: how do I promote the reading experience that makes people think that there are many different ways to play with it? So just now, I gave an example of running book club, is that a way to play with it? Can you imagine, after running and all sweaty, and we start to read books?

These are the things that we want to break on the stereotypes of reading. I can do a hiking books club, I can hike up the mountain and then read a book at the peak, no? People always think that reading books is about reading indoors. It’s usually indoor. Can I suggest an outdoor reading? Outdoor reading is actually an environmentally friendly thing no? We don’t need to turn on lights. You can have some cool breeze, and the whole thing can feel very comfortable. But we don’t have a lot of people talking about outdoor reading. I will think about these things, how do I eventually [promote the reading experience], and it won’t be in one event or something that allows me to do this. Maybe through similar activities, slowly and slowly spread this idea on the reading experience. And including: why rolling books? Hopefully there is a car that brings the books out, that will be even better. Of course, there are some people who say okay the public library has that too, but we are trying to do something very different from the public library.


