---

layout: post
title: the picture book with many stories
image:
  path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/hgkbk7pp8eutt3k/reading-on-the-beach.jpg?raw=1
  caption: "Reading to children about marine pollution on the beach."
tags: rollingbooks

---

I think the agendas that we work on [poverty alleviation, minority groups, marine pollution] came out of the time I was working at Oxfam. I learned some things from the bookstore, but not so much in detail because I was not working in an NGO. But when I was working at Oxfam, I really got to know a lot of agendas. And knowing these agendas, for example, on ethnic minorities or on human rights with domestic helper’s children, or on climate change, I think a lot of these topics are worth pushing for and bring to the children right now. It’s just that in Hong Kong, perhaps many NGOs are very focused in delivering direct messages. Some NGOs may have a wide spectrum of work including advocacy and campaigning. While my work [is] to promote reading, in my events and in my programs I am able to bring these issues to the families with picture book stories to initiate discussions among them. I think this is good. Generally, for parents and for children, this has a very positive impact. It’s this reason that the experience in Oxfam had shaped the agendas today.

Non-governmental organizations have to be very formal in delivering their messages. Because they are facing many different types of donors, when they talk about their agenda, that means they may have limitations at the same time. Let me give you an example. If an NGO recommends a picture book for their public education program, the story itself is very suitable. However, if the picture book contains some elements that may not be relevant to their core messages, then they may not use it. They don’t want the public to misunderstand their scope of work. Imagine a picture book about a [controversial] politician, about how he becomes who he is. The story has lots of reflection about personal growth and justice, it may be a great book, but do you think any NGO would endorse the picture book for the justice and courage story in the book? [Probably not]. This is just an example. But this is what it is. When NGOs have to be accountable for a wider constituency, they need to be very focused [on their specific agendas]—because their communication department will tell you, they are going to tell you very clearly, because from their stance they have to explain very clearly, and if anything there is that is not related they cannot in their program produce it. As for one more example, an NGO working on children protection can choose a picture book with a meaningful story, but if the picture book is also about children from same-sex parent families, then maybe the NGO wouldn’t choose to use this book, as to avoid confusion in the message it wants the public to receive. 
