---

layout: post
title: differences
image:
  path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/liih3k44rhe2mf3/mahad-birthday.png?raw=1
  thumbnail:  https://www.dropbox.com/s/liih3k44rhe2mf3/mahad-birthday.png?raw=1
  caption: "At Abdirahman's birthday."
tags: [africa is not a country]

---

**Chihiro:** I think in Japanese society, we expect other people to work without saying it out loud, we have something called “to read the atmosphere” or “to read the air”, it means you need to understand what your boss wants you to do, and you need to do it by yourself. But I feel like, that’s what I also need to, I needed maybe to adjust a bit since it’s not because when I was working with the other Japanese student or something in university, maybe…if you want someone to do something for you, you need to say it, or communicate better, so I think that’s like something I need to work on. Maybe better communication with the people. 

**Elsie:** For my side, what I can say is I like the way we are multicultural, it’s always important to have people who don’t have the same background or the same life as you have, and it allows me to know other mindsets, that not everybody has my mindset and because I can say yes, I did work in 8 years in Hong Kong but I’ve never been in the community or in the team, you know, I had team in work, I have never been a part of a team, but now I have that team and all of us are not perfect but we are putting our effort which is really beautiful because no one makes no one feel inferior and we are all giving our best, because we are all like giving our, how can I say it, like we are coming with a plus, all of us coming with a plus, and we are not ashamed to say we don’t know how to do this or that, because if you ask "how do you this one," someone may help you to do in a right way. That’s the positive part I have at the center, I cannot be ashamed and say this is I don’t literally, I don’t know this one or I haven’t eaten this one, because we contribute each other which is good. 

**Abdirahman:** One thing that is quite big to me personally is I always found it easy to get along and work with people, but when you look at personal background from where I come from, you compare Somalis with other African countries, it’s a bit more culturally homogenous. But when you are working with a very diverse group of people, everyone acts as an entry point of the wider cultural difference and the cultural background behind that person that person who you are working in the team, it’s like an entry point to that culture. And every person, everyday you understand a little more about a certain culture. Literature-wise, community-wise, or through personal instruction, I really find fascinating my knowlegde on culture and differences and the beauty of it, it keeps on increasing a little bit more everyday, I am learning a lot more about Africa than I knew before. It’s not just Africa, every person you meet has a giant culture behind them, and they are your contact point and you get a chance to explore those difference and the beauty of all that.  

**Abdikafi:** Yeah, I mean you know for me it’s great to work with self-motivated team members, I think the most beautiful people [are those] who celebrate difference, people who see they have a common vision, so that’s the part, of course, we are human beings and there are always changes you know, the level of that, but you know the idea almost everyone in the center feels that they are really doing whatever they are doing out of choice, something that they are passionate about, something they enjoy doing it’s what I feel. 

**Innocent:** The multicultural background is beautiful in a sense. I mean as much as people don’t like conflicts, for me there are huge learning opportunities in terms of people with cultural differences, where there is a conflict, I already take my notebook, like here’s an opportunity, because usually culture is deeper than chopsticks and spoon. I use chopsticks, I use spoons—culturally different. That’s not culture, that’s just materiality aspect of it. For me, culture is that thing deep down that when you see maybe somebody eating with their hands, and you feel inside of you saying something that it’s not right, for me that’s how there is conflict. So in many places, especially in some places where they claim to be multicultural, there may not be the best aspects of that, because they don’t get to push things a little far. So you know, push them a little bit, push them that, until there’s that conflict, and when that conflict arises, definitely that’s the learning opportunity. For many people it’s like I don’t want to talk to you, for me it’s like, let’s figure out where we see things differently, because humans, overall, I’m quite optimistic about humans in the sense that they want to do to good, and largely it’s a misunderstanding, it’s largely not knowing how to build [from] a conflict, especially in a multicultural space, people grow up in very monocultural spaces right now, but it’s usually a learning opportunity to see what is different for me, what is different for that person, and what’s the best way to approach. When you learn that man, I feel very smart, like I’m going to write a book about this. But those are the things that can only be learnt through conflict and in my view, you can’t really understand culture without a significant degree of conflict. You actually see where that is rising. So I get it, where there is conflict I am so excited, I am taking my chair, I am taking my notebook, I am going to give a lecture on this one, because I have discovered something about humans, that's the side of me, that’s why I appreciate the cultural differences, that’s why I still appreciate conflict. Unfortunately, not everyone addresses conflict like this, secretly I’m excited, I’m like hehehe, what do we learn here, so that’s, either way I’m going to be a happy guy I guess. 


