---
layout: post
title: freedom
image: 
 path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/q6a6au8x1m72p58/Liliana.png?raw=1
 thumbnail: https://www.dropbox.com/s/q6a6au8x1m72p58/Liliana.png?raw=1
 caption: "Second Flamenco Festival at Mar de Plata Argentina Theatre Auditorium by Liliana Macri ."
tags: mariacortés

---

Normally I always have flamenco with me through my career, but now with this situation, with this quarantine and all this, for me it was very important to use the music and the art, because I use it in my life as an instrument of consciousness. For example, if I teach the flamenco, I do not only give you the steps, the choreography and the technique, I always want to go deeper with the meaning which was the beginning of this dance, or the beginning of this art, or the historical moment, because everything is a manifestation of the situation of the society. People who are looking for deeper meanings, they like the feeling of flamenco, because it’s passionate, so when I go around the world, I always want to work to show the deepest in the flamenco because sometimes people likes the cliché: the beautiful dresses, the beautiful moments, it’s fun, it’s beautiful and people clap, but no, inside there is a big story that we cannot forget. For me, it’s always important to give the deep meaning, and in my career, I always used flamenco as a way of life, not just to earn money or only as a profession, but as a way of life, very open to the other. It’s like you live and you live with all that passion, and you see very clear it’s a way to be open to life, and to find your own way of freedom. Because for the flamenco, freedom is very important. The access to information is about freedom, too.

It’s very important because you see that in flamenco the dance has its rhythm, the dancing, the dancing is almost like an instrument that when somebody sings, you are responding, or helping with your rhythm to give more power to what he sings. This has a name and it’s a technical thing, but it’s very connected, it’s very important you listen to the singer and you know in which moment you have to respond. And it’s very alive. That’s why perhaps you see difference in what I do from what you see because what I do is not choreographic, it’s improvisation, based on what the singer is doing. Then every time it’s new. Every time, it’s happening.

<div class="responsive-embed responsive-embed-16by9">
  <iframe class="responsive-embed-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dDA09GwptV8"></iframe>
</div>
 <figcaption>Maria dancing flamenco at an event in Argentina.</figcaption>

I listen to the guitarist, and the guitarist in the end is following me. He has to follow the tones where I go, I am free. I can go and the guitarist has to know. Flamenco is very amazing. That’s why in traditional music in all the world, there is traditional music, it’s very important the people are doing this music are very connected to another level of consciousness. Because music is very pure. When you are busy with music, it’s not possible for another thought: music needs all your presence. Flamenco needs all your presence, to get connected with people, that’s why I think music has a powerful power to bring people inspiration to be awake. You know, for me it was always like that, I always went to concerts to see an artist or shows, because I could get an emotion that I cannot find anywhere else, and in live it’s much more of these emotions: it’s like wow, what is happening here? Life is happening, you know?
