---
layout: post
title: freedom
image: 
 path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/q6a6au8x1m72p58/liliana.png?raw=1
 thumbnail: https://www.dropbox.com/s/azhfb8fvd5p22tk/liliana_thumbnail.png?raw=1
 caption: Second Flamenco Festival at Mar de Plata Argentina Theatre Auditorium by Liliana Macri.
tags: [dancing flamenco]

---

In her flamenco, Maria pursues a freedom. It can be the freedom of her movements as the guitarist follows her or it can be the freedom towards consciousness.  

<!--more-->

-

**Maria:** Normally I always have flamenco with me in my career, but now with this quarantine, it was very important for me to use the music and the art, because I use them in my life as instruments of consciousness. For example, if I teach the flamenco, I do not only give my students the steps, the choreography and the technique, I always want to go deeper with the meaning which was the beginning of this dance, or the beginning of this art, because everything is a manifestation of the situation of the society. People who are looking for deeper meanings enjoy the feeling of flamenco, because it’s passionate, so when I go around the world, I always want to show the deepest in the flamenco. Sometimes people like the cliché: the beautiful dresses and moments, it’s fun and people clap, but inside there is a big story that we cannot forget. For me, it’s always important to give the deep meaning, and in my career, I always used flamenco as a way of life, not just to earn money or only as a profession, but as a way of life, to be very open to the other. I live with all that passion, and I see very clear it’s a way to be open to life and to find my own way of freedom. In flamenco, freedom is very important. The access to information is about freedom, too.

It’s very important because you see that in flamenco the dance has its rhythm. The dancing is almost like an instrument: when somebody sings, I am responding, or I am helping with my dancing rhythm to give more power to what he sings. It’s very important I listen to the singer and in which moment I have to respond. It’s very alive. What I do is not choreographic, it’s improvisation, based on what the singer is doing. Then every time it’s new. Every time, it’s happening.

<div class="responsive-embed responsive-embed-16by9">
  <iframe class="responsive-embed-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dDA09GwptV8"></iframe>
</div>
 <figcaption>Maria dancing flamenco at an event in Argentina.</figcaption>

I listen to the guitarist, and the guitarist in the end is following me. He has to follow the tones where I go, I am free. I can go and the guitarist has to know. Flamenco is very amazing. That’s why in traditional music in all the world, it’s very important that the people are very connected to another level of consciousness. Because music is very pure. When you are busy with music, it’s not possible for another thought: music needs all your presence. Flamenco needs all your presence, to be connected with the people, that’s why I think music has a powerful power to bring people inspiration to be awake. You know, for me it was always like that, I always went to concerts to see an artist or shows, because I could get an emotion that I cannot find anywhere else, and concerts in live give me so much more of these emotions. 
