---
layout: post
title: using zoom 
image:
  path: https://www.dropbox.com/s/az8myqcb4zcxmgb/rolling-books-recieving-books.jpg?raw=1
  thumbnail: https://www.dropbox.com/s/az8myqcb4zcxmgb/rolling-books-recieving-books.jpg?raw=1
  caption: "Parents recieving books from Rolling Books during Coronavirus."
tags: rollingbooks

---

Obviously, we cannot do a lot of the physical meetings anymore since the beginning of coronavirus. The events at the schools are postponed and even from last year, we couldn’t do a lot of the parent-children activities, because a lot of the times the protests were on Sunday, so we couldn’t do the parent-children activities on the weekends. For our organization there are impacts, but to be honest, I don’t really care about the impacts because it’s just a delay. Fortunately, I don’t have a lot of staff and I am not taking care of a huge team of people; if I was supposed to take care of a huge team of people, I would be worried. I am fortunate I don’t have this stress, and so, for the organization, we don’t have a lot of problems. If these activities are postponed, then we will do it more later. Of course, one of the larger impacts would be for the beneficiaries. We are not providing direct service; in the past we never had a fixed group of beneficiaries, because every time we go into schools do these activities. 

In the past, we never had fixed beneficiaries. During this time since coronavirus, I started having fixed beneficiaries, mainly with ethnic minorities children, [who are becoming] the target primary beneficiaries. The schools are without class, we can’t do face-to-face story-telling, so first we take videos [of storytelling in Chinese] and send these to them, and because you might see on our Facebook we have collected masks and hand sanitizers to give them, too, and we would go find them with our wooden cart with the books, go up to their homes and let them choose their books, so it’s like a library at their door. The impact of coronavirus for them is bigger, but at least, for the time being we are able to keep in contact with them. Thanks to this time, we are always interacting with them and we are able to better plan the next step. I would say there are some things I cannot change, but we will do some things that will allow us to still have contact with our beneficiaries. Our mission statement is that through the reading, [we can build] resilience in the children, and tell children about this resilience. Our organization too, have to be resilient, even in a situation like this, we have to work out how to keep in contact with these beneficiaries. I am using this time to contact them, allowing us to plan for the next step. This is how I would positively look at this situation.

<div class="responsive-embed responsive-embed-16by9">
  <iframe class="responsive-embed-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EToUCOjA78w"></iframe>
</div>
 <figcaption>Staff at Rolling Books teaching Cantonese through videos.</figcaption>

I think primarily at their homes, we can hear about their needs. For example, we would ask what problems they would have: in the beginning they don’t have enough masks and the masks are too expensive; then after that, we heard some parents say they didn’t have enough sanitary products, female sanitary products, and some people donated that to us and we also delivered to their mothers or the females—those are the needs that we identified. This has nothing to do with reading, but we heard such needs, so we did what we could. We also heard that they think it is very expensive to pay for the tuition when the kids are not going to school, and also that there is no Zoom. You know schools, for classes they want to use Zoom? But in some homes, there’s not enough computers, so we hear this kind of things. We would have to think a little more when designing our services, so even if we don’t use face-to-face interactions, we hope to design interactions using Whatsapp video, because obviously these parents have Whatsapp, so Whatsapp video is still okay. It’s funny, I don’t share this often, I have heard external parties asking me why I don’t use Zoom for childrens' program during the coronavirus outbreak. It’s not that I don’t know how to use Zoom, it’s that the people don’t know the families cannot spare a notebook or a phone to use Zoom. If you use Zoom, there are many technical things you need to do, no? I can’t expect them to use Zoom. Among all the software, the reason why we use Whatsapp video, Whatsapp live call, is because we can only use this. This is the kind of things we hear when we go visit the homes. We will not propose some things that are not beneficial to the people. 
